There are a set of principles that
I wanna explore in kind of how I
go about approaching lean
user research and testing.
And so
let's take a moment to run through those,
because I think those will be
maybe quite encouraging for you.
The first thing I wanna talk about is
the case for user research and testing.
We know in our heads this
stuff is important, right?
But being able to articulate that
with stakeholders and clients and
people like that is a really
important thing to be able to do.
And also, to remind ourselves
of how beneficial it can be for
us personally, not for the user, right?
Let's forget the user for a minute.
That's a great thing to say on a user
research and testing workshop.
But let's forget the user for a minute.
We know that user research and
testing will help them, but
it will also help you in your job,
and it will also help your company, or
organization you're working with, and
it will also help your colleagues.
First of all, what benefits does doing
user research and testing have for you?
Because I know a lot of the people that
are watching this user research and
testing is not your primary role.
Your probably a developer, right?
And as a developer, you think,
I know user research and
testing is important, but
do I really want to be doing this?
Do I wanna take this on,
on top of everything else?
Well, there are a lot of good
reasons to do it for a start,
because of your knowledge and
your expertise in the field of digital and
in creating web apps and websites,
you're actually very
knowledgeable about what you do.
But does your stakeholders,
your clients, and
your managers realize how
knowledgeable you are, right?
In my experience, no.
In my experience, other stakeholders
think they know better, don't lie.
So one of the huge benefits of doing
a little bit of user research and
a little bit of testing for you,
is you get to be proved right, right?
You have some evidence to back up
the expertise that you've already had.
So that's one good reason
to do it yourself, right?
If there is something
you want to put prove,
there's a point you're trying to
make to stakeholders and clients.
Little bit of research, little bit of
testing couldn't get rid of endless hours
of arguing, or headbanging, or
getting frustrated and swearing, right?
Might be just me that gets sweaty but
there you go.
The second reason that you want to
pay attention to it, is a client or
a stakeholder comes to me with a bad idea.
Let's just go with that.
And you see it's got you sitting
there going, really, really?
Well, instead of getting into this
argument with them where you're normally
gonna lose, because normally that
stakeholder or kind is more senior
than you, and so therefore thinks
automatically their idea is better.
So instead of getting into an argument,
just do a little bit of testing.
Show them that their idea is bad, and
that way you can avoid confrontation
by just suggesting we test it.
So that's another reason.
And the final reason for you to do it
is to avoid criticism later, right?
Testing is a great way of
covering your ass, right?
It's a great way of saying, well,
we tested it, we went and checked it.
So all of these are brilliant reasons for
you personally to do a little bit of
research and testing even when
it's not primarily your job.
But there are also organizational benefit.
And we need to talk about
these things in the right way,
because we use the right words,
it tends to go much better.
So let's go back to your bank, right?
Bank is a big, established
organization that's been around ages.
So those kinds of organizations, they're
all about maintaining the status quo,
maintaining their position
within the marketplace.
Also, there's a lot of compliance that's
going on there, a lot of rules and
regulations.
So what you do is talk about
risk management, right?
They're terrified of risk.
Don't wanna risk anything.
Well, if we don't do our user research and
testing, this could backfire.
Accessibility, that's always
a good one to go with.
Yeah, if we don't test it with people,
it might be inaccessible.
And then there would be a PR disaster,
and we would get sued, right?
Great way to talk with people like that.
Another organizational who benefit for
maybe the more startup side of things,
the smaller hungrier organization,
is market fit, right?
So in those situations, they're wanting to
know they can outperform the competitors.
That they can be more progressive,
more disruptive in the industry.
But the only way you know that is to do
but if you have research and testing,
right?
Or the other thing that smaller
organizations always wanna know is,
they wanna get in there quick.
They wanna establish
their market position.
So actually user research and
testing can reduce debate and
the time spent on failed approaches and
will get you to market faster
than if you don't test, right?
And that's a big claim that
I'm making there, okay?
I'm saying slowing down and
doing user research and
testing will get you to market
faster than not doing it.
And I will prove that later, but for
now I'll leave it hanging, right?
So those are the organizational benefits,
but
organizations are made up of people,
right?
And people, he says,
remember I'm older now,
I've become old and cynical, right?
People are selfish, even if something
is the best thing for the organization,
if it makes their lives difficult,
they don't want to do it, right?
They don't want to get on.
Well, I've got a deadline to me,
and so your research and
testing might mean I'm not
gonna meet my deadline.
I don't care that it's beneficial for the
project or the user or the organization.
It's gonna inconvenience me.
So therefore, I don't wanna do it.
So you've gotta tailor your message to
the different people you're talking about.
So imagine you're talking to
your finance team, right?
The finance department.
We don't have budget for testing.
Well, you could talk
about how research and
testing reduces the chance of the project
failing and going over budget, right?
So you can position it from a financial
point of view that it provides financial
benefit, clean up planning because you
know how long something's gonna take,
what's gonna be required,
all of those kinds of things.
And equally when you're talking
maybe to say a sales and
marketing team,
you can talk about how research and
testing will increase the chance that the
service will succeed in the market place.
Or improve the conversion rate,
or terms like that,
the kinds of things that sales and
marketing people care about.
And equally when you're
talking to developers, right?
Which admittedly a lot of you guys are,
research and
testing is gonna re-streamline
the development process and
reduce wasted efforts, because they're
not gonna ask you to build something and
then ten minutes later turn around and
go, now we've had a new idea.
Now, we want you to build this instead.
Cuz it's based on data and
real world stuff, rather than just what
they made up on that particular
moment in that particular day.
So it can be hugely valuable.
Again, getting to know how to present
it right to stakeholders is a big part
of this.
But it's also about proving
the value over time, right?
You cannot go and this is the biggest
mistake I see all the time, right?
I often help organizations
establish UX teams within
an organization that traditionally
hasn't had a UX team.
And what often happens is they hire a UX
lead who goes in hell for leather and
says, we need to be doing this and
we need to be doing that and
we need to be doing the other.
And immediately is butting up
against the existing culture and
the way people are thinking
within the organization.
And it's going to cost a lot of money
it's going to cost a lot of time,
it's gonna be disruptive,
we don't wanna do any of that, right?
What you're better off doing is
proving the value by going in
small to begin with and growing over time.
Carrying out small tests to show
the value of user testing without
delaying the project or costing money.
And I'll show you ways to do that later.
Very small, very simple to get it
into the culture of the organization,
get people used to doing it, and then you
grow on that gradually over the time.
So once you've done one bit
of testing on one project and
the next project is easy to say, well, we
did that one last time, let's do it again.
But this time you make it a bit bigger,
a bit more complete.
Also, another great way of proving
the value is to actually to involve
stakeholders in the testing.
Don't just go away and
do a bit of testing, but
invite them try to watch usability
testing if you do some of that.
Or provide them at least a summary of
the testing that was done and the results.
And maybe talk to them about the results,
or maybe discuss with them what
the testing should be and
how we should go about doing it.
We tend to exclude stakeholders from the
process, because they just mess stuff up.
[LAUGH] But, in truth,
we're better off including them,
because if we include them, then they
begin to have a sense of ownership.
If they've got a sense of ownership,
then they're more likely to support
the results of it, and get invested in it.
And then the final thing that I try and
do to prove the value is
communicate successes.
So make sure that you put effort into
promoting the benefits of your user
research and
testing through success stories.
Include them in presentations,
maybe start a newsletter sharing UX
best practice in your organization.
Whatever opportunities you've got,
start talking about how user
testing helped things, right?
And if possible, even try and
associate $ value with
the difference you've made, right?
And a lot of that will be guesswork.
You'll be making up figures,
now don't actually make up stuff,
I'm not advising that.
But make estimates and be open about the
fact that you're making guesstimates, and
people will come back and say,
well, those are just guesstimates.
Well, why don't we do some research and
testing to find out how
accurate these numbers are?
So you can begin to build an interest and
demonstrate the value of
user experience over time.
So recognize that, if you wanna
start introducing user testing and
research into your organizations,
with your clients and
stuff like that, your job is gonna
be as much about convincing them of
the value as it is going to be doing
the user research and testing.